Kiwi TCMS 6.3
#############

:headline: fixes XSS vulnerability, GitLab integration
:date: 2018-12-04 09:15
:comments: true
:tags: releases

We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 6.3! This is a medium severity
security update that includes new versions of Django and Patternfly,
new database migrations, lots of improvements, bug fixes and internal
refactoring. This version also introduces integration with GitLab issue
tracker! You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/login/github/>`_!

Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)


Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  8135624fdca2    960.3 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957.6 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955.7 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970.2 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970.1 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976.8 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 6.2.1
-----------------------------


Security
~~~~~~~~

- Resolve medium severity XSS vulnerability which can be exploited when
  previewing malicious text in Simple MDE editor. See
  `CVE-2018-19057 <https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-19057>`_,
  `SNYK-JS-SIMPLEMDE-72570 <https://snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JS-SIMPLEMDE-72570>`_
- Use ``mozilla/bleach`` before rendering Markdown to the user as a second layer
  of protection against the previously mentioned XSS vulnerability


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update to `Django 2.1.4 <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.1/releases/2.1.4/>`_
- Update to `Patternfly 3.58.0 <https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/releases>`_
- Make docker container restartable (Maik Opitz, Adam Hall)
- Add GitLab issue tracker integration. Fixes
  `Issue #176 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/176>`_
  (Filipe Arruda, Federal Institute of Pernambuco)
- Convert ``Create new TestPlan`` page to Patternfly (Anton Sankov)
- Upon successful registration show the list of super-users in case new
  accounts must be activated manually. This can be the same or expanded
  version of the addresses in the ``ADMIN`` setting. Include super-users
  in email notifications sent via ``tcms.signals.notify_admins()``.
- Don't include ``admin/js/*.js`` files in templates when not
  necessary. Results in faster page load. Fixes
  `Issue #209 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/209>`_
- Enable ``nl2br`` Markdown extension which allows newline characters
  to be rendered as ``<br>`` tags in HTML. Visually the rendered
  text will look closer to what you seen in the text editor. Fixes
  `Issue #623 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/623>`_
- Use auto-complete for adding components to TestCase


Removed functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Bulk-update of Category for selected TestCase(s) inside of
  TestPlan
- Bulk-update of Components for selected TestCase(s) inside of
  TestPlan
- Bulk-update of automated status for selected TestCase(s) inside of
  TestPlan
- Bulk-remove for TestCase Component tab

These actions have always been a bit broken and didn't check the
correct permission labels. You can still update items individually!

- Selection of Components when creating new TestCase. Closes
  `Issue #565 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/565>`_.
  Everywhere else Kiwi TCMS doesn't allow selection of many-to-many
  relationships when creating or editing objects. Tags, Bugs, Components,
  TestPlans can be added via dedicated tabs once the object has been saved.


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Hide ``KiwiUserAdmin.password`` field from super-user. Fixes
  `Issue #610 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/610>`_
- Don't show inactive Priority. Fixes
  `Issue #637 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/637>`_
- Don't traceback when adding new users via Admin. Fixes
  `Issue #642 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/642>`_
- Teach ``TestRun.update()`` API method to process the ``stop_date``
  field. Fixes
  `Issue #554 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/554>`_ (Anton Sankov)
- Previously when reporting issues to Bugzilla, directly from a TestRun,
  Kiwi TCMS displayed the error ``Enable reporting to this Issue Tracker by
  configuring its base_url`` although that has already been configured.
  This is now fixed. See
  `Stack Overflow #53434949 <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53434949/>`_


Database
~~~~~~~~

- Remove ``TestPlan.owner`` field, duplicates ``TestPlan.author``


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Remove ``fmt_queries()``. Fixes
  `Issue #330 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/330>`_ (Anton Sankov)
- Remove unused parameter from ``plan_from_request_or_none()``. Refers to
  `Issue #303 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/303>`_ (Anton Sankov)
- Remove ``ComponentActions()`` class. Fixes
  `Issue #20 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/20>`_
- Convert lots of AJAX calls to JSON-RPC
- Remove lots of unused Python, JavaScript and templates. Both after migration
  to JSON RPC and other leftovers
- Pylint fixes (Alexander Todorov, Anton Sankov)



How to upgrade
---------------

If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd Kiwi/
    git pull
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Don't forget to `backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
before upgrade!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest


Happy testing!
