Kiwi TCMS 5.1
#############

:headline: tech-preview: Django Report Builder
:date: 2018-07-31 12:00
:comments: true


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 5.1! This release
introduces new database migrations, an experimental reporting feature,
deprecated functionality and bug fixes.

The new ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` docker image has Image ID ``cc9b55aa664d``.
https://demo.kiwitcms.org has also been updated!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 5.0
---------------------------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Integrate with Django Report Builder as tech-preview. This makes it possible
  for power users and administrators to generate
  `tabular reports <http://django-report-builder.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howto/>`_.
  You will have to know the existing DB schema if you want to create your own reports.
  See http://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/db.html. This feature is in
  tech-preview and it may be removed if it doesn't work out. Please comment at:
  `Issue #452 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/452>`_.
- Allow using ``manage.py dumpdata|loaddata|sqlflush|dbshell`` for backups, see
  `blog post <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
- In TestCase view page add a link to delete the current test case
- In TestCase Admin page the ``+ Add TestCase`` button now allows to create new
  test case
- The version menu item in the helper menu now links to
  `Changelog <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/blob/master/CHANGELOG.rst#change-log>`_


Deprecated functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Start showing deprecation warning for Advanced search, see
  `Issue #448 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/448>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Allows Product/Version/Build to be shown in Testing Report. Fixes
  `Sentry KIWI-TCMS-2C <https://sentry.io/open-technologies-bulgaria-ltd/kiwi-tcms/issues/618688608/>`_
- Default to ``https://`` links if not running locally. Fixes
  `Issue #450 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/450>`_
- Apply missing CSS class for object history table so it can be displayed nicely


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Squash some database migrations
- Fix a number of pylint issues
- Remove unused ``testruns.views::view_caseruns()``. References
  `Issue #316 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/316>`_
- Remove unused template ``report/caserun.html``
- Handle TestRun deletion via admin not home grown code




How to upgrade
---------------

If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd Kiwi/
    git pull
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Don't forget to `backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
before upgrade!


Help us make Kiwi TCMS better
-----------------------------

According to `our 2018 roadmap update <{filename}2018-07-25-roadmap-update.markdown>`_
the Kiwi TCMS team is investing a great deal of our time to make the code base more
maintainable! For the past few releases we've been balancing code refactoring
with bug-fixing and enhancements and we have lots of ideas down the line.

We want to hear your voice! Tell us how you use Kiwi TCMS inside your organization.
We want to know what works for you and what doesn't so we can make it better. Feel
free to comment below, file GitHub issues or send us an email.


Happy testing!
