Kiwi TCMS 6.5.3
###############

:headline: security, improvements and bug fixes
:date: 2019-02-12 00:20
:comments: true
:tags: releases

We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 6.5.3! This is a
security, improvement and bug-fix update that includes new
versions of Django, includes several database migrations and fixes several bugs.
You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/login/github/>`_!

Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)


Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  b9355cf85833    1.039 GB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957.6 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955.7 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970.2 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970.1 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976.8 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 6.5
---------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 2.1.5 to 2.1.7. Fixes CVE-2019-6975:
  Memory exhaustion in ``django.utils.numberformat.format()``


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update mysqlclient from 1.4.1 to 1.4.2
- Multiple template strings marked as translatable (Christophe CHAUVET)


Database migrations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Email notifications for TestPlan and TestCase now default to True
- Remove ``TestPlanEmailSettings.is_active`` field


API
~~~

- New method ``Bug.report()``, References
  `Issue #18 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/18>`_
- Method ``Bug.create()`` now accepts parameter ``auto_report=False``

Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `German translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/de#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Show the user who actually tested a TestCase instead of hard-coded value. Fixes
  `Issue #765 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/765>`_
- Properly handle pagination button states and page numbers. Fixes
  `Issue #767 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/767>`_
- Add TestCase to TestPlan if creating from inside a TestPlan. Fixes
  `Issue #777 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/777>`_
- Made TestCase text more readable. Fixes
  `Issue #764 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/764>`_
- Include missing templates and static files from PyPI tarball


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Use ``find_packages()`` when building PyPI tarball
- Install Kiwi TCMS as tarball package inside Docker image instead of copying
  from the source directory
- Pylint fixes
- Remove ``testcases.views.ReturnActions()`` which is now unused
- Refactor New TestCase to class-based view and add tests



How to upgrade
---------------

If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd Kiwi/
    git pull
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Don't forget to `backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
before upgrade!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest


Happy testing!
