Kiwi TCMS 6.7
#############

:headline: improvements and bug fixes
:date: 2019-04-06 17:15
:comments: true


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 6.7!
This is a small improvement and bug-fix update.
You can explore everything at
`https://demo.kiwitcms.org <https://demo.kiwitcms.org/login/github/>`_!

Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  702a78976de7    993.5 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957.6 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955.7 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970.2 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970.1 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976.8 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 6.6
---------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 2.1.7 to 2.2
- Update markdown from 3.0.1 to 3.1
- Update psycopg2 from 2.7.7 to 2.8
- Update pygithub from 1.43.5 to 1.43.6
- Update bleach-whitelist from 0.0.9 to 0.0.10
- Update marked(.js) to version 0.6.2
- Support arbitrary depth for ``MENU_ITEMS`` setting
- Support auto-discovery of 3rd party Telemetry plugins, see
  `documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/telemetry/index.html>`_


Database migrations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Rename ``TestCaseRun`` to ``TestExecution`` including renaming existing
  permissions
- Rename ``TestCaseRunStatus`` to ``TestExecutionStatus``


API
~~~

- Rename ``TestCaseRun.*`` to ``TestExecution.*``
- Rename ``TestCaseRunStatus.*`` to ``TestExecution.*``
- This version keeps the old names for backwards compatibility reasons but they
  will be removed in
  `Issue #889 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/889>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Prompt user before deleting attachments. Fixes
  `Issue #867 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/867>`_ (Martin Jordanov)
- ``email_case_deletion()`` format error fixed so notifications when
  test cases are deleted are not sent (Rik)


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Remove unused images
- Install ``node_modules/`` under ``tcms/`` and include it inside PyPI tarball


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Native JUnit 5 plugin
---------------------

Our team is happy to announce the availability of
`kiwitcms-junit-plugin <https://github.com/kiwitcms/junit-plugin/>`_.
This is a native JUnit 5 plugin which will read the results from your
automated test suite and send them back to Kiwi TCMS.

Version 1.0.3 and the latest changes in master branch are still to be considered
Beta quality. They are available for early preview and feedback.

Many thanks to `Aneta Petkova <https://github.com/apetkova>`_ who is the
main contributor behind this plugin!


How to upgrade
---------------

If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd Kiwi/
    git pull
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Don't forget to `backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
before upgrade!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest

Happy testing!
