Kiwi TCMS 6.4
#############

:headline: security updates, improvements and bug fixes
:date: 2019-01-07 15:25
:comments: true
:tags: releases

We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 6.4! This is a security,
improvement and bug-fix update that includes new versions of Django,
Patternfly and other dependencies. You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/login/github/>`_!

Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)


Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  39fcb88182bb    963.4 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957.6 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955.7 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970.2 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970.1 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976.8 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 6.3
---------------------------


Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 2.1.4 to 2.1.5, which deals with CVE-2019-3498:
  Content spoofing possibility in the default 404 page
- Update Patternfly to version 3.59.0, which deals with XSS issue in bootstrap.
  See CVE-2018-14041
- By default session cookies will expire after 24 hours. This can be controlled
  via the ``SESSION_COOKIE_AGE`` setting. Fixes
  `Issue #556 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/556>`_


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update mysqlclient from 1.3.13 to 1.3.14
- Update python-gitlab from 1.6.0 to 1.7.0
- Update django-simple-history from 2.5.1 to 2.6.0
- Update pygithub from 1.43.3 to 1.43.4
- New API method ``TestCase.remove()``. Initially requested as
  `SO #53844380 <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53844380/>`_
- Drop down select widges in Patternfly pages are now styled with
  ``bootstrap-select`` giving them more consistent look and feel with
  the rest of the page (Anton Sankov)
- Create new TestPlan page now includes toggles to control notifications
  and whether or not the test plan is active. This was previously available
  only in edit page (Anton Sankov)
- By default TestPlan notification toggles are turned on. Previously they
  were off (Anton Sankov)
- Create and Edit TestPlan pages now look the same (Anton Sankov)
- Kiwi TCMS is now accepting donations via
  `Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms>`_


Removed functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Remove ``TestPlan page -> Run menu -> Add cases to run`` action.
  This is the same as ``TestRun page -> Cases menu -> Add`` action
- Legacy reports will be removed after 1st March 2019. Provide your
  feedback in
  `Issue #657 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/657>`_
- The ``/run/`` URL path has been merged with ``/runs/`` due to configuration
  refactoring. This may break your bookmarks or permalinks!


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Don't traceback if markdown text is ``None``. Originally reported as
  `SO #53662887 <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53662887/>`_
- Show loading spinner when searching. Fixes
  `Issue #653 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/653>`_
- Quick fix: when viewing TestPlan cases make TC summary link to the test case.
  Previously the summary column was a link to nowhere.


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Traditional translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-TW#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Pylint fixes
- New and updated internal linters
- Refactor ``testplans.views.new`` to class based view (Anton Sankov)
- Refactor ``TestCase -> Bugs tab -> Remove`` to JSON-RPC. References
  `Issue #18 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/18>`_
- Refactor ``removeCaseRunBug()`` to JSON-RPC, References
  `Issue #18 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/18>`_
- Remove unused ``render_form()`` methods
- Remove unnecessary string-to-int conversion (Ivaylo Ivanov)
- Remove obsolete label fields. References
  `Issue #652 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/652>`_ (Anton Sankov)
- Remove JavaScript that duplicates ``requestOperationUponFilteredCases()``
- Remove ``QuerySetIterationProxy`` class - not used anymore


How to upgrade
---------------

If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd Kiwi/
    git pull
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Don't forget to `backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
before upgrade!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest


Happy testing!
