Kiwi TCMS 6.10
##############

:headline: medium security updates and few improvements
:date: 2019-06-18 22:45
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 6.10!
This is a small security and improvement update.
You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/login/github/>`_!

Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  bbb581d60ed1    1.005 GB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957.6 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955.7 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970.2 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970.1 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976.8 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 6.9
---------------------------


Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 2.2.1 to 2.2.2 for medium severity
  CVE-2019-12308 (XSS), CVE-2019-11358 (jQuery).
  `More info <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.2/releases/2.2.2/>`_
- Add missing permission checks for menus in Test run page UI template.
  Permission check added for TestExecution status and comment menu.
  References `Issue #716 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/716>`_
- Re-enable static analysis with ``bandit`` and ``Coverity Scan`` in
  Travis CI (Svetlomir Balevski)


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update psycopg2 from 2.8.2 to 2.8.3
- Update markdown from 3.1 to 3.1.1
- Update patternfly to version 3.59.2
- Override ``PasswordResetForm`` because ``Site.objects.get_current()``
  didn't produce correct results when working with ``kiwitcms-tenants``
- Show column ``is_active`` in user admin page


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add test for ``email_case_deletion()`` (Rik)
- New linter to warn about usage of ``AutoField``. Fixes
  `Issue #737 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/737>`_ (Ivo Donchev, HackSoft)
- New linter to discover empty classed. Fixes
  `Issue #739 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/739>`_ (Daniel Goshev)
- New linter to warn about usage of ``OneToOneField``. Fixes
  `Issue #735 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/735>`_ (George Goranov)
- New linter to warn about usage of function based views. Fixes
  `Issue #734 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/734>`_ (Yavor Lulchev, Uber)
- New linter to discover Python files in directories without ``__init__.py``. Fixes
  `Issue #790 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/790>`_


Join us at OpenExpo in Madrid
-----------------------------

Kiwi TCMS is exhibitor at `OpenExpo Europe <https://openexpoeurope.com/>`_
on June 20th in Madrid. We will be hosting an info booth and 2 technical
presentations delivered by
`Anton Sankov <https://openexpoeurope.com/speaker/anton-sankov/>`_ and
`Alex Todorov <https://openexpoeurope.com/speaker/alexander-todorov/>`_.

Kiwi TCMS is also the leading finalist in the
`Best Tech Community <https://a.cstmapp.com/entries/31129/sort:votes/direction:desc>`_
category at Open Awards 2019!

Use **OE19SPEAKERINVITE** 100% discount code! Get your ticket
`here <https://www.eventbrite.es/e/openexpo-europe-2019-the-leading-enterprise-it-open-innovation-summit-tickets-56499351080?discount=OE19SPEAKERINVITE#tickets>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd Kiwi/
    git pull
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Don't forget to `backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
before upgrade!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest

Happy testing!
