Kiwi TCMS 6.9
#############

:headline: testing breakdown telemetry, improvements and bug fixes
:date: 2019-05-16 16:20
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 6.9!
This is a small improvement and bug-fix update which introduces
our first telemetry report: testing breakdown. You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/login/github/>`_!

Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  a01eaeddf213    1.001 GB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957.6 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955.7 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970.2 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970.1 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976.8 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 6.8
---------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update mysqlclient from 1.4.2 to 1.4.2.post1
- Ship with prism.js so it can be used for syntax highlighting
- Add Testing Breakdown telemetry
- Mark more strings for translations
- Add ``delete_user()`` function which can delete data across
  Postgre schemas (if kiwitcms-tenants add-on is installed)


API
~~~

- Remove deprecated ``TestCaseRun.`` API methods. Use the new
  ``TestExecution.`` methods introduced in v6.7. Fixes
  `Issue #889 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/889/>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fix typos in documentation (@Prome88)
- Fix ``TemplateParseError`` in email templates when removing test cases.
  On-delete email notification is now sent properly


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add more tests around TestRun/TestExecution menu permissions
- Minor pylint fixes


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_

Join us at OpenExpo in Madrid
-----------------------------

Kiwi TCMS is exhibitor at `OpenExpo Europe <https://openexpoeurope.com/>`_
on June 20th in Madrid. We will be hosting an info booth and 2 technical
presentations delivered by Anton Sankov and Alex Todorov.

Next week we are going to announce 100% discount tickets
for our guests at the conference. If you are interested in coming
`subscribe to our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
and don't miss the announcement!


How to upgrade
---------------

If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd Kiwi/
    git pull
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Don't forget to `backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_
before upgrade!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest

Happy testing!
