Kiwi TCMS 7.3
#############

:headline: critical security update
:date: 2020-01-16 01:00
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 7.3!

**IMPORTANT:** this is a critical security update for
**CVE-2019-19844: Potential account hijack via password reset form!**

Also migrates to Django 3.0 and includes several other improvement
and bug-fixes!

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  4026ee62e488    556 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 7.2
---------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 2.2.8 to 3.0.2


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update python-gitlab from 1.13.0 to 1.15.0
- Update pygithub from 1.44.1 to 1.45
- Update django-grappelli from 2.13.2 to 2.13.3
- Bump django-uuslug from 1.1.9 to 1.2.0
- Bump django-attachments from 1.4.1 to 1.5
- Bump django-vinaigrette from 1.2.0 to 2.0.1
- Update marked to version 0.8.0
- Update prismjs to version 1.19.0
- Generalize existing ``kiwitcms.telemetry.plugins`` handling code by
  renaming the entry point to ``kiwitcms.plugins``
- Refactor views to class based (Svetlozar Stoyanov)
- Teach Kiwi TCMS to automatically report bugs to GitHub when the user
  selects such action. Fall back to opening a new browser window for
  manually entering the bug if something goes wrong


Database
~~~~~~~~

- When migrating from the older ``Bug`` model to ``LinkReference`` skip
  bugs which are attached directly to test cases instead of test executions.
  See `SO #59321756 <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59321756/>`_
- Remove ``AutoField.max_length`` because it is ignored by Django 3


API
~~~

- ``TestCase.update()`` method now allows to update the ``author`` field. Fixes
  `Issue #630 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/630>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Modify template pass ``object`` as ``test_plan``. Fixes
  `Issue #1307 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1307>`_ (Ed Oswald S. Go)
- Enable version selection in test plan search page. Fixes
  `Issue #1276 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1276>`_
- Apply percentage rounding for completed test executions. Fixes
  `Issue #1230 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1230>`_
- Fix a logical bug in conditional expression when deciding whether or not
  reporting bugs to selected issue tracker is disabled


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add code of conduct. Fixes
  `Issue #1185 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1185>`_ (Rosen Sasov)
- Add test for ``KIWI_DONT_ENFORSE_HTTPS``. Closes
  `Issue #1274 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1274>`_
- Replace ``ugettext_lazy`` with ``gettext_lazy`` for Django 3
- Remove ``BaseCaseSearchForm.bug_id`` field
- Refactor testcase edit view to class-based
- Happy New Year pylint


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_
- Updated `Vietnamese translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/vi#>`_


GitHub integration
------------------

The hosted version of Kiwi TCMS ships with additional GitHub integration. See
`GitHub App announcement <{filename}2020-01-12-github-app-migration.markdown>`_ and
`github-app <https://github.com/kiwitcms/github-app/blob/master/README.rst>`_
for more information!


Upcoming conferences
--------------------

The next two events we are going to participate are:

* `DevConf.CZ, Jan 24-26, Brno <https://devconfcz2020a.sched.com/speaker/a.sankov96>`_
  where Anton Sankov will be a speaker
* `FOSDEM, Feb 1-2, Brussels <{filename}2019-11-26-fosdem2020.markdown>`_
  where you can meet with the entire team


If you are around come and say "Happy testing"!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

**WHERE:** ``docker-compose.yml`` has been updated from your private git repository!
The file provided in our GitHub repository is an example. Not for production use!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest

Happy testing!
