Kiwi TCMS 8.9
#############

:headline: UI updates, new APIs and other improvements
:date: 2020-12-07 16:25
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 8.9!

**IMPORTANT:** this release includes many improvements,
API changes, bug fixes, translation updates,
new tests and internal refactoring.
It is the seventh release to include contributions via our
`open source bounty program </blog/tags/bounty-program/>`_.
You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!
This is also the second release after
`Kiwi TCMS reached 200K pulls <{filename}2020-10-26-200K-celebration.markdown>`_
on Docker Hub!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  9bcfea3a532e    652 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 8.8
---------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update django from 3.1.3 to 3.1.4
- Update django-extensions from 3.0.9 to 3.1.0
- Update django-grappelli from 2.14.2 to 2.14.3
- Update pygments from 2.7.2 to 2.7.3
- Update python-bugzilla from 3.0.1 to 3.0.2
- Update node_modules/marked from 1.2.3 to 1.2.5
- Update node_modules/html5sortable from 0.9.18 to 0.10.0
- New ``manage.py initial_setup`` command for one-stop initial setup
  (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Bug tracker integration with BitBucket (bitbucket.org). Fixes
  `Issue #1916 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1916>`_ (@cmbahadir)
- Complete redesign and refactoring of Test Run page:

  - Closes
    `Issue #189 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/189>`_,
    `Issue #241 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/241>`_,
    `Issue #212 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/212>`_,
    `Issue #431 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/431>`_,
    `Issue #1382 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1382>`_
  - Add filter by component & tag. Closes
    `Issue #833 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/833>`_
  - Don't limit the user to test cases from the parent test plan like before.
    Testers can add any test case for execution inside a test run,
    even mix & match test cases between products. Fixes
    `Issue #1934 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1934>`_
  - Add attachments to Test Run page. Fixes
    `Issue #872 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/872>`_
  - Refresh execution row after reporting a bug. Closes
    `Issue #479 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/479>`_
- ``TestCaseStatus`` can now be customized. Fixes
  `Issue #1932 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1932>`_
- Update documentation & screenshots


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- Setting ``ANONYMOUS_USER_NAME`` is now explicitly defined due to upstream bug
  in django-guardian (Abhishek Chaurasia)


Database
~~~~~~~~

- New migrations for customizeable ``TestCaseStatus``


API
~~~

- Add ``TestExecution.history()`` method
- Add ``TestCase.history()`` method
- Add ``TestRun.add_cc()`` method
- Add ``TestRun.remove_cc()`` method
- Method ``TestExecution.update()`` will use build from parent test run if a
  ``build`` field isn't explicitly specified in the arguments
- Update method ``TestRun.add_case()``

  - will return existing TestExecution if available
  - will raise if test case status is not confirmed
  - will always create new test executions with the highest sortkey


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fixed miscellaneous bugs in ``tcms.rpc.testcase`` (Gagan Deep)
- Disable name change in admin for the default groups. Fixes
  `Issue #1313 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1313>`_


Refactoring & testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add automated tests for ``tcms.core.views.server_error``. Fixes
  `Issue #1606 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1606>`_
  (Abhishek Chaurasia)
- Add automated tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.auth``. Fixes
  `Issue #1620 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1620>`_
  (Abhishek Chaurasia)
- Add automated test for ``AnonymousViewBackend.has_perm`` method. Fixes
  `Issue #1905 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1905>`_
  (Abhishek Chaurasia)
- Add automated tests for ``tcms.core.utils.maito``. Fixes
  `Issue #1603 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1603>`_ (Gagan Deep)
- Add automated tests for ``tcms.utils.github``. Fixes
  `Issue #1612 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1612>`_ (Gagan Deep)
- Add automated tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.testscase``. Fixes
  `Issue #1623 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1623>`_ (Gagan Deep)
- Add automated tests for ``tcms.testcases.views.NewCaseView``. Fixes
  `Issue #1614 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1614>`_ (@rish07)
- Add automated tests for ``tcms.testplans.views.NewTestPlanView.`` Fixes
  `Issue #1616 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1616>`_ (@awalvie)
- Separate two functions one from another (Alexander Tsvetanov)
- Disable pylint checks (Alexander Tsvetanov)
- Upgrade to MySQL 8 in Travis CI
- Remove unused setup in Travis CI
- Be more robust when keeping internal state for TestPlan page


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Bulgarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/bg#>`_
- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `Czech translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/cs#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Indonesian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/id#>`_
- Updated `Japanese translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ja#>`_
- Updated `Russian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ru#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v8.9-mt
----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v8.9

For more info see
https://github.com/kiwitcms/enterprise#v89-mt-07-dec-2020


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Nominate Kiwi TCMS as GitHub Stars <{filename}2020-09-04-nominate-github-star.markdown>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a customer </#pricing>`_ and we'll share our profits with the community
