Kiwi TCMS 8.8
#############

:headline: object-level permissions, big UI updates and other improvements
:date: 2020-11-09 12:10
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 8.8!

**IMPORTANT:** this release includes many improvements,
API changes, bug fixes, translation updates, new tests and internal refactoring.
It is the sixth release to include contributions via our
`open source bounty program </blog/tags/bounty-program/>`_.
You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!

This is also the first release after
`Kiwi TCMS reached 200K pulls <{filename}2020-10-26-200K-celebration.markdown>`_
on Docker Hub!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  4b31ecf8ab5b    654 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 8.7
---------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update bleach from 3.1.5 to 3.2.1
- Update django-extensions from 3.0.8 to 3.0.9
- Update django from 3.1.1 to 3.1.3
- Update django-simple-history from 2.11.0 to 2.12.0
- Update markdown from 3.2.2 to 3.3.3
- Update pygments from 2.7.0 to 2.7.2
- Update python-bugzilla from 2.5.0 to 3.0.1
- Update node_modules/marked from 1.1.1 to 1.2.3
- Update node_modules/prismjs from 1.21.0 to 1.22.0
- Add management command ``refresh_permission``. Closes
  `Issue #1137 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1137>`_ (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Add bug tracker integration for Azure Boards. Closes
  `Issue #1979 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1979>`_ (@cmbahadir)
- Add autosave configuration to web editor. Closes
  `Issue #1958 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1958>`_ (Mfon Eti-mfon)
- Change ON/OFF buttons messages to Yes/No for several buttons (Alexander Tsvetanov)
- Add support for object-level permissions for TestCase,
  TestPlan, TestRun and Bug objects via ``django-guardian``
- Complete redesign of Test Plan page to match the rest of Kiwi TCMS:

  - modern look and feel using the PatternFly UI library
  - remove unused legacy code & HTML templates
  - closes
    `Issue #663 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/663>`_,
    `Issue #1977 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1977>`_

- Enable Markdown support for strike-through text
- Always pull latest RPMs when building container images
- Update documentation and images


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- ``AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS`` setting is now explicitly specified because of
  ``django-guardian``. Take care to include the default backends if you
  override this setting. See ``tcms/settings/common.py`` for more information.


Database
~~~~~~~~

- Add index to ``TestCase.summary`` field
- Additional migrations from ``django-guardian`` around object-level permissions
- New ``AnonymousUser`` record added by ``django-guardian``
- Start using ``django-tree-queries`` which improves how tree based structures
  are stored in the database.

**important:**

    Requires PostgreSQL, sqlite3 >= 3.8.3, MariaDB >= 10.2.2 or
    MySQL >= 8.0 (if running without ``ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY``).

**warning:**

    Supports only trees with max. 50 levels on MySQL/MariaDB, since those databases
    do not support arrays and require us to provide a maximum length upfront.
    This means up to 50 levels of nested child-parent test plans!


API
~~~

- Method ``TestExecution.update()`` will now modify field ``close_date``
  depending on test execution status. Fixes
  `Issue #1820 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1820>`_
- Method ``TestCase.add_comment()`` now returns the created comment
- Method ``TestExecution.add_comment()`` now returns the created comment
- Method ``TestPlan.add_case()`` now returns the newly added test case
- Add method ``TestCase.sortkeys()``. Fixes
  `Issue #444 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/444>`_
- Add method ``Markdown.render()``
- Add method ``TestCase.comments()``
- Add method ``TestPlan.tree()``


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fix url formatting. Fixes
  `Issue #1806 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1806>`_ (Rosen Sasov)
- When deleting TestExecutionStatus check that there will be at least 1 left
  before deleting! Closes
  `Issue #1978 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1978>`_
- Update typeahead definitions for test case components, tags and
  for adding test plans to test cases. Fixes
  `Issue #882 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/882>`_
- Add option to filter by reviewer in Test Plan page. Fixes
  `Issue #564 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/564>`_
- Pass the number of disabled test cases to HTML template when
  creating a new test run. Fixes
  `Issue #718 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/718>`_


Refactoring & testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- New linter to warn against ``GenericForeignKey`` fields in models. Closes
  `Issue #1303 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1303>`_ (Bryan Mutai)
- Add tests for ``assign_default_group_permissions()`` (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Add tests for ``TestExecutionStatusAdmin``. Refs
  `Issue #1618 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1618>`_ (Mariyan Garvanski)
- Add tests for ``tcms.bugs.views.Search``. Closes
  `Issue #1601 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1601>`_ (Mfon Eti-mfon)
- Add tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.testrun``. Closes
  `Issue #1628 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1628>`_ (@lcmtwn)
- Add tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.classification``. Closes
  `Issue #1621 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1621>`_ (Abhishek Chaurasia)
- Add tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.priority``. Closes
  `Issue #1622 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1622>`_ (Abhishek Chaurasia)
- Add tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.testcasestatus``. Closes
  `Issue #1624 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1624>`_ (Abhishek Chaurasia)
- Add tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.attachment``. Closes
  `Issue #1619 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1619>`_ (@awalvie)
- Add tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.testexecution.remove_comment``. Closes
  `Issue #1625 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1625>`_ (@awalvie)
- Add tests for ``tcms.rpc.api.testexecutionstatus``. Closes
  `Issue #1626 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1626>`_ (@awalvie)
- Add tests for ``TestRun.add_case_run()`` method and rename it to
  ``TestRun.create_execution()``
- ``libkrb5-dev`` is not needed anymore in CI with newer ``tcms-api``
- Use Fedora 32 to build Bugzilla docker image in CI
- Update signature for overriden class to match Django 3.1
- Move SimpleMDE initialization to simplemde_security_overide.js
- Move ``post_save.send()`` from ``bugs.views`` to ``comments.add_comment()``


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Bulgarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/bg#>`_
- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `Czech translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/cs#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Hungarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/hu#>`_
- Updated `Italian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/it#>`_
- Updated `Japanese translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ja#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v8.8-mt
----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v8.7
- Update kiwitcms-github-app from 1.2 to 1.2.

For more info see
https://github.com/kiwitcms/enterprise#v88-mt-07-nov-2020


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Nominate Kiwi TCMS as GitHub Stars <{filename}2020-09-04-nominate-github-star.markdown>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a customer </#pricing>`_ and we'll share our profits with the community
