Kiwi TCMS 8.2
#############

:headline: update 3rd party libraries, small improvements & API changes
:date: 2020-04-03 22:25
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 8.2!

**IMPORTANT:** 
this is a small release which updates 3rd party libraries,
provides minor improvements, minor API changes and some new translations.
You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  7c1b947b9a43    561 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 8.1
---------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update bleach from 3.1.1 to 3.1.4
- Update django from 3.0.4 to 3.0.5
- Update django-colorfield from 0.2.1 to 0.2.2
- Update pygithub from 1.46 to 1.47
- Update python-gitlab from 2.0.1 to 2.1.2
- Update marked(js) to version 0.8.2
- Change default MariaDB charset and collation to utf8mb4. Will only affect
  new installations. Closes
  `Issue #327 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/327>`_
- Document ``TCMS_PLAN_ID`` ENV variable supported by automation framework
  plugins
- Test case Search page now allows searching for records containing the
  specified text. Closes #1209 @Schwarzkrieger
- Provide ``../site-packages/tcms_settings_dir/`` when installing Kiwi TCMS
  which is an empty pkgutil-style namespace where other packages can drop
  their configuration
- Hide empty values in Execution trends chart tooltips


API
~~~

- Remove ``Auth.login_krbv()`` method
- Method ``TestRun.update()`` will now accept ``%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S``
  timestamp format. The previous format ``%Y-%m-%d`` is also supported
- Method ``TestExecution.create()`` now defaults to first neutral status
  instead of searching for the hard-coded ``IDLE``. That means newly created
  test executions which do not specify status will be created with the first
  neutral status found in the database


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fix pylint errors. Closes
  `Issue #1510 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1510>`_ (@cmbahadir)
- Add tests for ``TestRunAdmin.delete_view()`` (Mariyan Garvanski)
- Revert "[l10n] Add Serializer class which returns untranslated models"


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Bulgarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/bg#>`_
- Updated `Portuguese, Brazilian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pt-BR#>`_


social-auth-kerberos v0.2.4
---------------------------

A new version of our Kerberos authentication backend has been released
as well. For more info check
https://github.com/kiwitcms/python-social-auth-kerberos#changelog.
This version is included with *Kiwi TCMS Enterprise*.


tcms-api v8.2.0
---------------

New version of our ``tcms-api`` library has been released as well.
Notable changes include the bug-fixes for Kerberos support and the
ability to use Kerberos on Windows. For more information see
https://github.com/kiwitcms/tcms-api/#changelog.


tap-plugin & junit.xml-plugin v8.2
----------------------------------

Both plugins are now using the latest version of ``tcms-api`` library
and include additional improvements like being able to specify
existing TestPlan and setting ``stop_date`` for the automated TestRun.
For more information see https://github.com/kiwitcms/tap-plugin#changelog
and https://github.com/kiwitcms/junit.xml-plugin/#changelog


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb-103-centos7
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

**WHERE:** ``docker-compose.yml`` has been updated from your private git repository!
The file provided in our GitHub repository is an example. Not for production use!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest

Happy testing!
