Kiwi TCMS 8.0
#############

:headline: major release with backwards incompatible changes
:date: 2020-02-12 23:45
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 8.0!

**IMPORTANT:** this is a major release which includes important database and
API changes, several improvements and bug fixes. Multiple API methods are now
incompatible with older releases and extra caution needs to be applied when
upgrading via ``docker-compose.yml`` because newer MariaDB versions are
breaking direct upgrades from existing installations!


You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  71a55e353da2    557 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 7.3
---------------------------


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 3.0.2 to 3.0.3
- Update django-grappelli from 2.13.3 to 2.14.1
- Update markdown from 3.1.1 to 3.2
- Update python-gitlab from 1.15.0 to 2.0.1
- Update pygithub from 1.45 to 1.46
- Allow customization of test execution statuses via admin.
  For more information see
  https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/admin.html#test-execution-statuses.
  Fixes `Issue #236 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/236>`_
- Add passing rate chart to Execution trends telemetry
- Documentation updates (@Prome88)


Database
~~~~~~~~

This release adds several migrations which alter the underlying database schema
by renaming multiple columns.

**WARNINGS:**

- SQLite has very poor capabilities for altering schema and it will break
  when run with existing database! If you had deployed Kiwi TCMS with
  SQLite for production purposes you will not be able to upgrade! We recommend
  switching to Postgres first and then upgrading!

- ``docker-compose.yml`` has been updated from MariaDB 5.5 to MariaDB 10.3.
  The 10.x MariaDB containers change their ``datadir`` configuration from
  ``/var/lib/mysql`` to ``/var/lib/mysql/data``! We recommend first upgrading
  your MariaDB version, using Kiwi TCMS 7.3 and afterwards upgrading to
  Kiwi TCMS 8.0:

  1. Backup existing database with::

        docker exec -it kiwi_db mysqldump -u kiwi -pYourPass kiwi > backup.sql

  2. ``docker-compose down``
  3. ``docker volume rm kiwi_db_data`` - will remove existing data volume
     b/c of incompatibilities between different MariaDB versions
  4. ``docker-compose up`` - will recreate data volume with missing data. e.g.
     ``manage.py showmigrations`` will report that 0 migrations have been applied.
  5. Restore the data from backup::

       cat backup.sql | docker exec -u 0 -i kiwi_db /opt/rh/rh-mariadb103/root/usr/bin/mysql kiwi

     **note:** This connects to the database as the root user

  6. Proceed to upgrade your Kiwi TCMS container !

**CHANGES:**

- Remove model fields of type ``AutoField``. They are a legacy construct
  and shouldn't be specified in the source code! Django knows how to add them
  dynamically. These are:

  - ``Tag.id``
  - ``TestCaseStatus.id``
  - ``Category.id``
  - ``PlanType.id``
  - ``TestExecutionStatus.id``

- Remove ``db_column`` attribute from model fields
- Rename several primary key fields to ``id``:

  - ``Build.build_id`` -> ``Build.id``
  - ``TestRun.run_id`` -> ``TestRun.id``
  - ``TestPlan.plan_id`` -> ``TestPlan.id``
  - ``TestCase.case_id`` -> ``TestCase.id``
  - ``TestExecution.case_run_id`` -> ``TestExecution.id``


API
~~~

**WARNING:**

The database schema changes mentioned above affect multiple API methods
in a backwards incompatible way!
There is possibility that your API scripts will also be affected. You will
have to adjust those to use the new field names where necessary!

**CHANGES:**

- Methods ``Build.create()``, ``Build.filter()`` and ``Build.update()`` will
  return ``id`` instead of ``build_id`` field
- Method ``TestRun.get_cases()`` will return ``execution_id`` instead of
  ``case_run_id`` field and ``id`` instead of ``case_id`` field
- Methods ``TestRun.add_case()``, ``TestExecution.create()``,
  ``TestExecution.filter()`` and ``TestExecution.update()`` will return
  ``id`` instead of ``case_run_id`` field
- Methods ``TestRun.create()``, ``TestRun.filter()``, ``TestRun.update()`` will
  return ``id`` instead of ``run_id`` field
- Methods ``TestPlan.create()``, ``TestPlan.filter()`` and
  ``TestPlan.update()`` will return ``id`` instead of ``plan_id`` field
- Methods ``TestCase.add_component()``, ``TestCase.create()``,
  ``TestCase.filter()`` and ``TestCase.update()`` will return ``id`` instead
  of ``case_id`` field

**NOTES:**

Kiwi TCMS automation framework plugins have been updated to work with the
newest API. At the time of Kiwi TCMS v8.0 release their versions are:

- kiwitcms-tap-plugin v8.0.1
- kiwitcms-junit.xml-plugin v8.0.1
- kiwitcms-junit-plugin v8.0


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Allow displaying lists with more then 9 items when reviewing test cases. Fixes
  `Issue #339 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/339>`_ (Mfon Eti-mfon)
- Make ``tcms.tests.storage.RaiseWhenFileNotFound``` capable of finding
  finding static files on Windows which enables development mode for folks
  not using Linux environment. See
  `SO #55297178 <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55297178>`_ (Mfon Eti-mfon)
- Allow changing test execution status without adding comment. Fixes
  `Issue #1261 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1261>`_
- Properly refresh test run progress bar when changing statuses. Fixes
  `Issue #1326 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1326>`_
- Fix a bug where updating test cases from the UI was causing text and various
  other fields to be reset. Fixes
  `Issue #1318 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1318>`_


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Extract attachments widget to new template. Fixes
  `Issue #1124 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1124>`_
  (Rosen Sasov)
- Rename RPC related classes. Fixes
  `Issue #682 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/682>`_
  (Rosen Sasov)
- Add new test (Mariyan Garvanski)
- Start using GitHub actions, first for running flake8
- Remove unused ``TestCase.get_previous_and_next()``
- Remove unused ``TestCaseStatus.string_to_instance()``
- Remove unused ``TestCase.create()``
- Remove unused ``json_success_refresh_page()``
- Remove unused fields from ``SearchPlanForm``
- Use JSON-RPC in ``previewPlan()``
- Remove ``toggleTestCaseContents()``, duplicate of ``toggleTestExecutionPane()``
- Refactor a few more views to class-based


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Bulgarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/bg#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Korean translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ko#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_
- Updated `Turkish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/tr#>`_


GitHub Marketplace listing deprecation
--------------------------------------

As we've stated previously Kiwi TCMS has migrated to a new GitHub backend and
OAuth tokens for the previous backend have been revoked and the
existing listing on GitHub Marketplace is deprecated. It is a non-functioning
app at the moment!

It is not possible for us to cancel Marketplace subscriptions programatically,
that is GitHub does not provide such API. Active subscribers please follow these
3 steps to help us clean up stale information:

- Go to https://github.com/marketplace/kiwi-tcms
- From "Edit your plan" button at the top select your GitHub account
- Then click "Cancel this plan" link which is at the left-hand side
  at the bottom of the description box!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi
    docker pull centos/mariadb-103-centos7
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

**WHERE:** ``docker-compose.yml`` has been updated from your private git repository!
The file provided in our GitHub repository is an example. Not for production use!

**WARNING:** ``kiwitcms/kiwi:latest`` and ``docker-compose.yml`` will
always point to the latest available version! If you have to upgrade in steps,
e.g. between several intermediate releases, you have to modify the above workflow::

    # starting from an older Kiwi TCMS version
    docker-compose down
    docker pull kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    edit docker-compose.yml to use kiwitcms/kiwi:<next_upgrade_version>
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate
    # repeat until you have reached latest

Happy testing!
