Kiwi TCMS 10.3
##############

:headline: small improvement and bug-fix release
:date: 2021-08-11 16:05
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 10.3!

**IMPORTANT:** this is a small release which includes several improvements,
bug fixes, internal refactoring and updated translations.
It is the twelveth release to include contributions via our
`open source bounty program </blog/tags/bounty-program/>`_!

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Container images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  bd28c4b064f5    579 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 10.2
----------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update bleach from 3.3.0 to 4.0.0
- Update django from 3.2.5 to 3.2.6
- Update django-colorfield from 0.4.1 to 0.4.2
- Update django-tree-queries from 0.5.2 to 0.6.0
- Update python-bugzilla from 3.0.2 to 3.1.0
- Update python-gitlab from 2.9.0 to 2.10.0
- Update node_modules/html5sortable from 0.13.2 to 0.13.3
- Docker image is now based on Red Hat's Universal Base Image instead of
  CentOS 8. See https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/introducing-red-hat-universal-base-image and
  https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/ubi8/ubi-minimal/5c359a62bed8bd75a2c3fba8.

  **Important:**

      The ``mysql`` and ``psql`` binaries in the container image are not available anymore!
      Backup and restore instructions have been updated accordingly, see
      https://kiwitcms.org/blog/atodorov/2018/07/30/how-to-backup-docker-volumes-for-kiwi-tcms/.

- Use ``initial_setup`` command to create public tenant in case we're running a multi-tenant
  instance. References
  `Enterprise #88 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/enterprise/issues/88>`_ (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Document that for Jira integration we use API tokens


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fix a bug where drop-down selectors for test plans would not show any values when
  product is changed. Fixes
  `Issue #2467 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2467>`_


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add tests for missing coverage in ``kiwi_auth.admin``. References
  `Issue #1607 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1607>`_
  (Mariyan Garvanski)
- Fix some eslint issues and formatting in ``testcases/js/get.js``
- Use shorter URL when cloning test cases from TP page. References
  `Issue #1054 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1054>`_
- Limit URI size to 10KiB. This alone should allow for more than 1000 PKs
  specified for cloning. In addition Django itself limits the maximum number of
  GET/POST fields to 1000 via the ``DATA_UPLOAD_MAX_NUMBER_FIELDS`` setting,
  see https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/settings/#data-upload-max-number-fields.
  Closes
  `Issue #1054 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1054>`_


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `German translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/de#>`_
- Updated `Hungarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/hu#>`_
- Updated `Portuguese, Brazilian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pt-BR#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v10.3-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v10.3
- Container image based on Red Hat Universal Base Image
- Update django-ses from 2.1.1 to 2.2.1
- Update python3-saml from 1.10.1 to 1.11.0
- Add GitLab login icon

**IMPORTANT:** Kiwi TCMS Enterprise container images are available only to subscribers!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a customer </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
