Kiwi TCMS 10.1
##############

:headline: general security, improvement and bug-fix release
:date: 2021-05-18 15:00
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 10.1!

**IMPORTANT:** this release includes many improvements & security updates,
database changes, new and updated API methods, bug fixes, translation updates,
new tests and internal refactoring.
It is the tenth release to include contributions via our
`open source bounty program </blog/tags/bounty-program/>`_ and collaboration
with
`Major League Hacking <{filename}2020-10-13-partnership-mlh-fellowship.markdown>`_!

This is the second release after Kiwi TCMS reached 400K pulls
on Docker Hub! You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  788af5c3f067    800 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 10.0
----------------------------

Improvements & security updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Upgrade from Python 3.6 to Python 3.8 inside the container
- Upgrade Django from 3.1.7 to 3.2.3
- Upgrade django-attachments from 1.8 to 1.9.1
- Upgrade django-contrib-comments from 2.0.0 to 2.1.0
- Upgrade django-extensions from 3.1.1 to 3.1.3
- Upgrade django-grappelli from 2.14.3 to 2.15.1
- Upgrade django-simple-history from 2.12.0 to 3.0.0
- Upgrade django-tree-queries from 0.4.3 to 0.5.1
- Upgrade jira from 2.0.0 to 3.0.1
- Upgrade pygments from 2.8.0 to 2.9.0
- Upgrade python-gitlab from 2.6.0 to 2.7.1
- Upgrade node_modules/html5sortable from 0.10.0 to 0.11.1
- Upgrade node_modules/marked from 2.0.1 to 2.0.3
- Time-stamp fields added to all TestRun pages. Closes 
  `Issue #1928 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1928>`_ (Andreea Moraru)
- Don't set ``TestRun.start_date`` automatically. Fixes
  `Issue #2323 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2323>`_ (Andreea Moraru)
- Web based database initialization for new installations. Closes 
  `Issue #1698 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1698>`_ (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Automatically active the first registered user via web UI
- Rearrange layout of before and after fields on search pages
- Allow TestRun creation from navigation menu. Fixes
  `Issue #2281 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2281>`_
- Document hardware specs & performance baseline results. Refs
  `Issue #721 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/721>`_
- Document performance for ``TestCase.filter``/``TestRun.filter`` methods. Closes
  `Issue #1173 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1173>`_
- Update documentation around ``docker-compose.yml`` and the extra script files that it needs
- Document some useful management commands
- Clarify ``set_domain`` command. Closes
  `Issue #2375 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2375>`_


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- Change ``TEMP_DIR`` to ``/var/tmp`` which affects the location in which
  intermediate files coming from migrations are saved. If ``/var/tmp`` doesn't
  exist the fallback is ``/tmp`` which on modern Linux distributions is ephemeral
- Add ``DEFAULT_AUTO_FIELD`` to hard-code expected behavior and prevent unwanted
  changes introduced by future versions of Django


Database
~~~~~~~~

- Add new fields to ``TestCase`` - ``setup_duration``, ``testing_duration`` and
  a calculatable ``expected_duration`` attribute (Angelina)
- Remove unused ``TestRun.product_version`` field


API
~~~

- Method ``TestRun.filter()`` return value changes field names:

  - ``product_version`` -> ``plan__product_version``
  - ``product_version__value`` -> ``plan__product_version__value``
  
  .. warning::
  
      You will need to adjust your API scripts if using these fields!

- Method ``Component.filter()`` will return only distinct results
- New method ``KiwiTCMS.version()``


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Remove links and icons from TestRun print styling. Fixes
  `Issue #2263 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2263>`_ and
  `Issue #2264 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2264>`_ (Gagan Deep)
- Emails notifications are now sent into server language. Fixes
  `Issue #1589 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1589>`_ (Kapil Bansal)
- Fix compatibility bug for "advanced search & add" popup windows and latest Chrome
  browsers. Fixes `Issue #2100 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2100>`_
- Redirect TestPlan Admin "Add" to the correct URL
- Fix wrong TestExecution field names in queryset & HTML template. Refs
  `Issue #1924 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1924>`_
- Add default display for ``None`` fields in Test Case page


Refactoring & testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add test automation for ``TestExecution.actual_duration``. Refs
  `Issue #1924 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1924>`_ (@APiligrim)
- Add test automation for ``TestCase.expected_duration``. Refs
  `Issue #1923 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1923>`_ (@APiligrim)
- Add test automation for ``ReadOnlyHistoryAdmin``. Fixes
  `Issue #1604 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1604>`_ (Kapil Bansal)
- Add ``similar-string`` checker to ``kiwi_lint``. Fixes
  `Issue #1126 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1126>`_ (@17sushmita)
- Resolve or silence the remaining outstanding pylint issues. Closes
  `Issue #171 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/171>`_
- Update isort from 5.7.0 to 5.8.0
- Convert forms to ``ModelForm``
- Remove unused method parameters
- Remove unused ``string_to_list()``. Closes
  `Issue #340 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/340>`_
- Simplify method used for progress-bar in dashboard which also
  reduces the total number of SQL queries
- Use existing functions, remove duplication
- Remove unnecessary calls & definition of ``loadInitialTestPlans()`` in Telemetry pages


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Hungarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/hu#>`_
- Updated `Italian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/it#>`_
- Updated `Japanese translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ja#>`_
- Updated `Polish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pl#>`_
- Updated `Portuguese, Brazilian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pt-BR#>`_
- Updated `Romanian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ro#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_
- Updated `Spanish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/es-ES#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v10.1-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v10.1
- Container image built with Python 3.8
- Update kiwitcms-tenants from 1.4.3 to 1.4.4

**IMPORTANT:** monthly subscription price for Kiwi TCMS SaaS offering has been updated to
50 $/mo for new subscriptions. Existing customers will not be affected!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a customer </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
