Kiwi TCMS 10.4
##############

:headline: several improvements and bug-fix release
:date: 2021-10-05 13:15
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 10.4!

**IMPORTANT:** this is a small release which includes several improvements,
bug fixes, internal refactoring and updated translations.
It is the thirteenth release to include contributions via our
`open source bounty program </blog/tags/bounty-program/>`_!

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Container images::

    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  10eb8f04cccd    590 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 10.3
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update prismjs from 1.24.1 to 1.25.0. Includes patches against a
  Regular Expression Denial of Service vulnerability.
  See https://snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JS-PRISMJS-1585202


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update bleach from 4.0.0 to 4.1.0
- Update django from 3.2.6 to 3.2.7
- Update django-colorfield from 0.4.2 to 0.4.3
- Update pygithub from 1.54.1 to 1.55
- Update pygments from 2.9.0 to 2.10.0
- Update python-gitlab from 2.10.0 to 2.10.1
- Allow filtering by TestRun ID in Test Case Search page
- Update test execution prefix in list of executions on TestRun page.
  Now includes both TE and TC numbers before the summary link
- Allow search by translated names on Test Run page
- Redirect "ADMIN -> Users and groups" menu item according to tenancy
- Allow creation of new test run from selected test cases inside existing test
  run. For example only select cases which are currently failing and re-test
  against a different build!
- The ``initial_setup`` command will create a schema called "empty" when executed
  inside a multi-tenant setup. Refs
  `Issue #127 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/tenants/issues/127>`_


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- Update values for ``MODERNRPC_HANDLERS`` setting
- Rename ``SafeJSONRPCHandler`` to ``KiwiTCMSJsonRpcHandler``
- New RPC handler class ``KiwiTCMSXmlRpcHandler``

.. warning::

    If you had manipulated the value of MODERNRPC_HANDLERS make sure that
    you update to the new class names!


Database
~~~~~~~~

- New migrations for altered meta options


API
~~~

- ``TestCase.create`` method accepts ``setup_duration`` and ``testing_duration`` fields.
  Refs `Issue #1923 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1923>`_ (Mfon Eti-mfon)
- ``TestCase.update`` method acepts  ``setup_duration`` and ``testing_duration`` fields.
  Refs `Issue #1923 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1923>`_ (Mfon Eti-mfon)
- New method ``Testing.individual_test_case_health``
- Timedelta values are serialized to float, representing seconds


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fix wrong URL parameter passed to test cases clone page
- Show translated execution statuses for TestRun page. Closes
  `Issue #1966 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1966>`_
- Properly initialize Product value on TestRun Edit page. Closes
  `Issue #2514 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2514>`_
- Clone duration fields when cloning a test case


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


- New automated test scenario for ``kiwi_auth.admin`` (Mariyan Garvanski)
- Unify similar strings to reduce translations burden
- Inside buildroot ``PyNaCl`` needs ``make`` in order to build a wheel package
- Adjust values for parametrized test to match existing scenarios
- Fix code smells from newer pylint
- eslint fixes for the JavaScript files


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~


- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `German translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/de#>`_
- Updated `Italian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/it#>`_
- Updated `Portuguese, Brazilian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pt-BR#>`_
- Updated `Russian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ru#>`_



Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v10.4.1-mt
-------------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v10.4
- Update django-ses from 2.2.1 to 2.3.0
- Update kiwitcms-github-app from 1.3.0 to 1.3.1
- Update python3-saml from 1.11.0 to 1.12.0
- Update social-auth-app-django from 4.0.0 to 5.0.0
- Use initial_setup during testing. Closes
  `Issue #88 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/enterprise/issues/88>`_
- Fix new pylint issues and start using f-strings
- Test "ADMIN -> Users and Groups" menu redirect


**IMPORTANT:** Kiwi TCMS Enterprise container images are available only to subscribers!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- Nominate Kiwi TCMS at `MLH Open Source Awards <https://fellowship.mlh.io/opensourceawards>`_;
- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a customer </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
