Kiwi TCMS 10.2
##############

:headline: improvement and bug-fix release
:date: 2021-07-12 11:40
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 10.2!

**IMPORTANT:** this is a small release including upgrades to 3rd party libraries
(including security related updates), several improvements and bug fixes.
It is the eleventh release to include contributions via our
`open source bounty program </blog/tags/bounty-program/>`_!

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


Supported upgrade paths::

    5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
    5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
    6.0.1            -> 6.1
    6.1              -> 6.1.1
    6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

Docker images::

    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  71b5c2a3dee4    972 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
    pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 10.1
----------------------------

Improvements & security updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update django from 3.2.3 to 3.2.5
- Update django-guardian from 2.3.0 to 2.4.0
- Update django-tree-queries from 0.5.1 to 0.5.2
- Update psycopg2 from 2.8.6 to 2.9.1
- Update python-gitlab from 2.7.1 to 2.9.0
- Update node_modules/marked from 2.0.3 to 2.1.3
- Update node_modules/html5sortable from 0.11.1 to 0.13.2
- Update node_modules/prismjs from 1.23.0 to 1.24.1
- Multiple select for filters on Telemetry pages. Fixes
  `Issue #1940 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1940>`_
  (Shantanu Verma + Alex Todorov)
- Allow editting TestCase ``setup_duration`` & ``testing_duration`` fields.
  References
  `Issue #1923 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1923>`_ (@APiligrim + Alex Todorov)
- Move several checks to Dashboard page instead of performing them on
  every request (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Fix grammatical error in documentation (Kushal Beniwal)
- Add health check for Issue Tracker configuration. Fixes
  `Issue #97 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/97>`_
- Document API URL field for Jira integration. Closes
  `Issue #2443 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2443>`_


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- ``tcms.core.middleware.CheckSettingsMiddleware`` has been removed
- ``tcms.core.middleware.CheckUnappliedMigrationsMiddleware`` has been removed


API
~~~

- Method ``Version.filter()`` now returns new field called ``product__name``
- Method ``Build.filter()`` now returns new field called ``version__value``
- Methods ``Build.filter()``, ``Version.filter()`` and ``TestPlan.filter()``
  will now order their results by ``product``/``version`` and then ``id``.
- Method ``Telemetry.breakdown()`` now returns only distinct results


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Make error messages in admin forms more legible. Fixes
  `Issue #2404 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2404>`_
- Large images will now fit into the available space on the screen,
  e.g. inside test case description cards. Fixes
  `Issue #2220 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2220>`_


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add automated tests for missing coverage in ``kiwi_auth.admin`` References
  `Issue #1607 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1607>`_ (Mariyan Garvanski)
- Apply eslint fixes (@sonyagennova + Alex Todorov)
- Refactor ``TestExecution.add_link`` method to use ModelForm and extend tests. Closes
  `Issue #1327 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1327>`_ (Rosen Sasov + Alex Todorov)
- Use context manager when opening files to make pylint happier
- Simplify 2 UI buttons on TestRun page
- Enable ``doc8`` for README and CHANGELOG and fix formatting errors


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Czech translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/cs#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `German translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/de#>`_
- Updated `Hungarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/hu#>`_
- Updated `Japanese translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ja#>`_
- Updated `Polish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pl#>`_
- Updated `Russian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ru#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v10.2-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v10.2
- Update django-ses from 2.0.0 to 2.1.1
- Update django-python3-ldap from 0.11.4 to 0.12.0
- Update documentation around initial config

**IMPORTANT:** Kiwi TCMS Enterprise container images are available only to subscribers!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
If you are using Kiwi TCMS as a Docker container then::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a customer </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
