Kiwi TCMS 10.5
##############

:headline: improvements, new features, bug-fixes and more
:date: 2021-11-26 11:20
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 10.5 which celebrates the
very positive reception we had at
`WebSummit 2021 <{filename}2021-10-29-kiwitcms-websummit2021-vennue-map.markdown>`_!

**IMPORTANT:**
this is a medium sized release which contains various improvements and new features,
database changes, new settings and API methods, bug-fixes, internal refactoring and
updated translations.

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


    Supported upgrade paths::
    
        5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
        5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
        6.0.1            -> 6.1
        6.1              -> 6.1.1
        6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

---

    Container images::
    
        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       latest  0574b19b5d66    583 MB
        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.2     7870085ad415    957 MB
        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1.1   49fa42ddfe4d    955 MB
        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.1     b559123d25b0    970 MB
        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       6.0.1   87b24d94197d    970 MB
        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi       5.3.1   a420465852be    976 MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 10.4
----------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update django from 3.2.7 to 3.2.9
- Update django-colorfield from 0.4.3 to 0.4.5
- Update django-extensions from 3.1.3 to 3.1.5
- Update django-grappelli from 2.15.1 to 2.15.3
- Update django-tree-queries from 0.6.0 to 0.7.0
- Update jira from 3.0.1 to 3.1.1
- Update markdown from 3.3.4 to 3.3.6
- Update mysqlclient from 2.0.3 to 2.1.0
- Update psycopg2 from 2.9.1 to 2.9.2
- Display a warning if connection doesn't use HTTPS (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Account registration page can be turned on/off via settings. Fixes
  `Issue #2500 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2500>`_
- TestCase Search page can now filter by TestPlan. Fixes
  `Issue #2283 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2283>`_
- Allow template selection when creating new test case. Fixes
  `Issue #957 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/957>`_
- TestCase page now allows specification of properties, e.g. mobile devices
  on which the test should be executed. This feature serves as a building
  block for
  `Issue #1843 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1843>`_,
  `Issue #1931 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1931>`_ and
  `Issue #1344 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1344>`_ but isn't active anywhere else inside
  Kiwi TCMS at the moment
- TestExecution properties will be displayed inside TestRun page if they
  have been specified
- Rearrange help-text in admin page for better visibility
- Switch to official Postgres image from Docker Hub
- Switch to official MariaDB image from Docker Hub

**Warning:**

    For Postgres data dir changed from ``/var/lib/pgsql/data`` to ``/var/lib/postgres/data``.
    Environment variables inside docker-compose file changed as well,
    see ``docker-compose.postgres``.

    For MariaDB data dir changed from ``/var/lib/mysql/data`` to ``/var/lib/mysql``.
    ``MYSQL_CHARSET`` & ``MYSQL_COLLATION`` environment variables are no longer
    recognized. Instead they are present as command line options passed to the container,
    see ``docker-compose.yml``. Previous workaround for these variables was also removed.

    If you want to migrate from the previous ``centos/mariadb-103-centos7`` or
    ``centos/postgresql-12-centos7`` containers to ``mariadb:latest`` and ``postgres:latest``
    make sure to update your container control files!


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- New setting ``REGISTRATION_ENABLED``, default ``True``, Can be controlled via
  environment variable ``KIWI_REGISTRATION_ENABLED``. When set to ``False``
  will disable account registration page


Database
~~~~~~~~

- New model ``testcases.Property``
- New model ``testcases.Template``
- New model ``testruns.TestExecutionProperty``
- Remove ``unique_together`` constraint for ``testruns.TestExecution`` model.
  This makes it possible to add multiple executions for the same test case in
  the same test run

**Warning:**

    These newly added models create additional permission labels with names
    *testcases | template | Can .... template*,
    *testcases | property | Can .... property*,
    *testruns | test execution property | Can .... test execution property*

    Execute ``manage.py refresh_permissions`` and/or assign them manually to
    users and groups if they should be able to interact with the new objects!


API
~~~

- Method ``TestCase.filter()`` now returns additional fields
  ``setup_duration``, ``testing_duration``, ``expected_duration`` - all
  serialized in seconds. Refs
  `Issue #1923 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1923>`_ (Mfon Eti-mfon)
- Method ``User.filter()`` will no longer return fields
  ``groups``, ``user_permissions``, ``date_joined`` and ``last_login``
- New method ``TestExecution.properties()``
- New method ``TestCase.properties()``
- New method ``TestCase.add_property()``
- New method ``TestCase.remove_property()``


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Unify tab size & tab indentation b/w Python & SimpleMDE. Fixes
  `Issue #1802 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1802>`_
- Use ``sane_list extension`` for rendering consecutive lists in markdown. Closes
  `Issue #2511 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2511>`_

**Warning:**

    The visual markdown editor explicitly didn't follow markdown syntax rules
    by allowing indentation with 2 spaces and treating tabs as 2 spaces as well.
    See "Indentation/Tab Length" at https://python-markdown.github.io/#differences

    The backend markdown rendering engine explicitly followed an undefined behavior
    which happens to be different from what the visual markdown editor does.
    See "Consecutive Lists" at https://python-markdown.github.io/#differences

    The previous 2 changes make sure the visual editor and backend rendering engine
    follow the same rules. This may result is "broken" display of existing text which
    doesn't follow the markdown syntax rules. If you spot such text just edit to make
    it render the way you wish.

- Fix broken URL and minor updates to documentation
- Update GitLab tracker integration documentation to avoid confusion. Closes
  `Issue #2559 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2559>`_
- Limit tag input length to 255 characters. Closes
  `Issue #2176 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2176>`_
- Make error notifications in Admin to display with red color
- Select only visible rows for bulk-update in TestRun page. Fixes
  `Issue #2222 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2222>`_
- Remove ``Cache-Control`` header from httpd. Closes
  `Issue #443 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/443>`_


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add permissions test for add-hyperlink-bulk menu. Closes
  `Issue #716 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/716>`_
- Add explicit tests for issue tracker integration with GitLab.com
- Tests teardown - remove comments & close issues on GitLab.com
- Add missing ``rlPhaseEnd`` for docker tests
- Multiple pylint and eslint fixes


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Hungarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/hu#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_



Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v10.5-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v10.5
- Update django-python3-ldap from 0.12.0 to 0.12.1
- Update django-ses from 2.3.0 to 2.3.1
- Update kiwitcms-tenants from 1.7.0 to 1.8.0


    Private images::
    
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         10.5-mt         3e597c91d057   804 MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            10.5            0574b19b5d66   583 MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and Enterprise
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then execute the commands::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py migrate

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
