Kiwi TCMS 11.2
##############

:headline: improvements, new API methods and aarch64 container images
:date: 2022-03-09 12:20
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 11.2.

**IMPORTANT:**
This is a small release which contains several improvements, new API methods,
internal refactoring and new translations! This is the first release to ship
``aarch64`` container images!

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


    Supported upgrade paths::
    
        5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
        5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
        6.0.1            -> 6.1
        6.1              -> 6.1.1
        6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::
    
        kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  bcc4c658440a    622MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 11.1
----------------------------


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update django from 4.0.2 to 4.0.3
- Update django-grappelli from 3.0.2 to 3.0.3
- Update django-simple-captcha from 0.5.14 to 0.5.17
- Update python-bugzilla from 3.1.0 to 3.2.0
- Update python-gitlab from 3.1.1 to 3.2.0
- Update node_modules/prismjs from 1.26.0 to 1.27.0
- Add new command to perform a collection of post-upgrade tasks.
  Kiwi TCMS admins are advised to replace
  ``manage.py migrate`` with ``manage.py upgrade`` (Ivajlo Karabojkov)


API
~~~

- New API method ``Category.create()``. Fixes
  `Issue #2705 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2705>`_ (Erik Heeren)
- New API method ``Classification.create()``. Fixes
  `Issue #2705 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2705>`_ (Erik Heeren)


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add docker build & push automation
- Fix Bandit exclusion rule
- Test and build on aarch64
- Apply auto fixes fro pre-commit.ci
- Apply auto fixes from Deepsource
- Update versions of several GitHub Actions
- Use the appropriate path to package.json for Dependabot
- Remove old Telemetry link in menu to avoid confusion


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Bulgarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/bg#>`_
- Updated `Japanese translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ja#>`_
- Updated `Chinese Traditional translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-TW#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_
- Updated `Spanish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/es-ES#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v11.2-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v11.2
- Update django-ses from 2.4.0 to 2.6.0
- Update python3-saml from 1.13.0 to 1.14.0
- Revert "Use django.contrib.staticfiles.storage from Django==3.2.12".
  Instead use the implementation from latest Django version. Closes
  `Issue #140 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/enterprise/issues/140>`_
- Start building kiwitcms/enterprise on aarch64
- Add changelog check & docker release automation
- Add test for PSA login URLs on login page. References
  `Issue #83 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/enterprise/issues/83>`_
- Add SAML & Azure AD logo images
- Update GitHub Actions
- Hard-code testing with Keycloak 16.1.1 to workaround significant differences
  with Keycloak v17 container

    Private images::

        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.2-mt (aarch64)   fe5e869e36f6    09 Mar 2022    890MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.2-mt (x86_64)    134320d5fb7c    09 Mar 2022    841MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.2 (aarch64)      3b782830d19d    09 Mar 2022    665MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.2 (x86_64)       bcc4c658440a    09 Mar 2022    620MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then execute the commands::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py upgrade

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
