Kiwi TCMS 11.4
##############

:headline: security, multiple improvements, new features and translations
:date: 2022-08-04 15:56
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 11.4!

**IMPORTANT:**
This is a medium sized release which contains security related updates,
multiple improvements, database and API changes, new settings, bug fixes
and new translations!


You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


    Supported upgrade paths::
    
        5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
        5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
        6.0.1            -> 6.1
        6.1              -> 6.1.1
        6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::
    
        kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  8c8356c0268d    610MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 11.3
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update django from 4.0.3 to 4.0.7, see
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/releases/4.0.7/,
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/releases/4.0.6/,
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/releases/4.0.5/ and
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/releases/4.0.4/
  We don't think Kiwi TCMS has been affected by the security vulnerabilities
  fixed in Django.
- Use TLSv1.2 and 1.3 by default and disable older protocols


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update bleach from 5.0.0 to 5.0.1
- Update django-colorfield from 0.6.3 to 0.7.2
- Update django-extensions from 3.1.5 to 3.2.0
- Update django-tree-queries from 0.9.0 to 0.11.0
- Update jira from 3.2.0 to 3.3.1
- Update markdown from 3.3.6 to 3.4.1
- Update mysqlclient from 2.1.0 to 2.1.1
- Update python-gitlab from 3.3.0 to 3.7.0
- Update node_modules/marked from 4.0.14 to 4.0.18
- Relax docutils requirement. Use latest version
- Add template block which will allow logo customizations (Ivajlo Karabojkov)
- Don't show ``PLUGINS`` menu when no plugins are installed. References
  `Issue #2729 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2729>`_
- Add information about Kiwi TCMS user to 1-click bug reports. Closes
  `Issue #2591 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2591>`_
- Use a better icon to signify a manual test inside the user interface
- Change ``UserAdmin`` to be permission based instead of being role-based.
  Fixes `Issue #2496 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2496>`_
- Allow post-processing of automatically created issues. Closes
  `Issue #2383 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2383>`_
- Allow more customization over issue type discovery for Jira. Closes
  `Issue #2833 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2833>`_
- Allow more customization over project discovery for Jira
- Allow more customization over Redmine tracker. Closes
  `Issue #2382 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2382>`_
- Allow DB settings to be read from Docker Secret files. Fixes
  `Issue #2606 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2606>`_
- Add filter on TestRun page to show test executions assigned to the
  current user. Closes
  `Issue #333 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/333>`_
- Add URL for creating new TestRun from a TestPlan. The format is
  ``/runs/from-plan/<plan-id>/``. Closes
  `Issue #274 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/274>`_
- Add ``bug.Severity`` attribute which is fully customizeable. Closes
  `Issue #2703 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2703>`_
- Update documentation around ``TCMS_`` environment variables
  used by automation plugins
- Update documentation to denote that pytest plugin is now generally available
- Document necessary permissions for adding new users. References
  `Issue #2496 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2496>`_


Database
~~~~~~~~

- New migration for ``bug.Severity`` model


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- Remove deprecated setting ``USE_L10N``. See
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/ref/settings/#use-l10n
- New setting ``EXTERNAL_ISSUE_POST_PROCESSORS``
- New setting ``JIRA_ISSUE_TYPE``
- New setting ``REDMINE_TRACKER_NAME``
- New setting ``EXTERNAL_ISSUE_POST_PROCESSORS``


API
~~~

- If ``default_tester`` field is not specified for ``TestRun.create()`` method
  then use the currently logged-in user.
- Return value for method ``TestExecution.filter()`` now contains fields
  ``expected_duration`` and ``actual_duration``. Closes
  `Issue #1924 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1924>`_
- Return value for method ``Bug.filter()`` now contains fields
  ``severity__name``, ``severity__icon`` and ``severity__color``


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Adjust field name when rendering test execution on TestRun page. Fixes
  `Issue #2794 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2794>`_
- Render rich text editor preview via backend API:

  - Makes display on HTML pages and editor preview the same. Fixes
    `Issue #2659 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2659>`_
  - Fixes a bug with markdown rendered in JavaScript. Fixes
    `Issue #2711 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2711>`_
- Stop propagation of HTML unescape which causes display issues with
  code snippets that contain XML values. Fixes
  `Issue #2800 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2800>`_
- Show bug text only when creating new records, not when editing
- Properly display & validate related form fields when editing bugs
- Don't send duplicate emails when editing bugs. Fixes
  `Issue #2782 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2782>`_


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Convert two assignment statements to augmented source code. Closes
  `Issue #2610 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2610>`_ (Markus Elfring)
- Rename method ``IssueTrackerType.report_issue_from_testexecution()``:

  - Rename to ``_report_issue()`` which returns tuple of (object, str)
  - In case new issue was not created automatically and the method falls
    back to manual creation the return value will be (None, str)
  - ``report_issue_from_testexecution()`` will call ``_report_issue()``
    internally and handle the change in return type

  .. note::

    - This change is backwards compatible!
    - For customized issue tracker integration you will have to apply
      the same changes to your customized code if you wish new functionality,
      like post-processing of automatically created issues to work.

- Add tests for backup & restore commands. Closes
  `Issue #2695 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2695>`_
- Update versions of several CI tools
- Updates around new version of pylint
- Use codecov-action to upload coverage results
- Remove setuptools and other workarounds in tests
- Don't special case dependencies which already provide wheel packages
- Workaround an issue with ``setuptools_git_archive`` introduced by jira==3.2.0
- Workaround the fact that ``django-ranged-response`` doesn't provide wheels
- Report test results via kiwitcms-django-plugin. Closes
  `Issue #1757 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1757>`_


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Traditional translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-TW#>`_
- Updated `Slovak translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sk#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v11.4-mt
-------------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v11.4
- Update django-python3-ldap from 0.13.1 to 0.15.2
- Update django-ses from 3.0.1 to 3.1.0
- Update dj-database-url from 0.5.0 to 1.0.0
- Add more icons for extra GitHub login backends
- Add images for various Google login backends

    Private images::

        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.4-mt (aarch64)       f5720d030612    03 Aug 2022     862MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.4-mt (x86_64)        8ffd5a64a4d1    03 Aug 2022     829MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.4 (aarch64)          62207c605dcf    03 Aug 2022     639MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.4 (x86_64)           8c8356c0268d    03 Aug 2022     610MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then execute the commands::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py upgrade

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
