Kiwi TCMS 11.5
##############

:headline: several improvements, bug fixes and new translations
:date: 2022-09-06 15:40
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 11.5!

**IMPORTANT:**
This is a small release which contains several improvements, bug fixes
and new translations!

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


    Supported upgrade paths::
    
        5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
        5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
        6.0.1            -> 6.1
        6.1              -> 6.1.1
        6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::
    
        kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  66c51b64e0a6    608MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 11.4
----------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update jira from 3.3.1 to 3.4.0
- Update pygments from 2.12.0 to 2.13.0
- Update python-gitlab from 3.7.0 to 3.9.0
- Update tzdata from 2022.1 to 2022.2
- Add Product drop down field in Build admin page. Closes
  `Issue #2818 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2818>`_
- Add 'prune' argument required for Django 4.1 compatibility
- Improve documentation around ``DEFAULT_GROUPS``
- Update docs about language preferences and add a Change language menu item. Closes
  `Issue #2901 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2901>`_,
  `Issue #2902 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2902>`_,
  `Issue #2903 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2903>`_
- Performance improvement for Status matrix telemetry
- Performance improvement for Execution trends telemetry
- Display a spinner widget while telemetry data is still loading. Closes
  `Issue #1801 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/1801>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fix error ``Jquery deferred: No length property of null object`` (@cmbahadir)


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add test for ``AnonymousViewBackend`` & ``auth.`` permissions
- Exclude ``auth.view_`` permissions from ``AnonymousViewBackend``
- Specify 30 seconds timeout for internal requests via the requests library


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `French translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/fr#>`_
- Updated `Polish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pl#>`_
- Updated `Russian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ru#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v11.5-mt
-------------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v11.5
- Update django-python3-ldap from 0.15.2 to 0.15.3
- Update django-ses from 3.1.0 to 3.1.2
- Update kiwitcms-tenants from 2.1.1 to 2.3.0
- Update kiwitcms-github-app from 1.3.3 to 1.4.0

    Private images::

        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.5 (aarch64)          4be7894de8ae    06 Sep 2022     638MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.5 (x86_64)           66c51b64e0a6    06 Sep 2022     608MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.5-mt (aarch64)       82d64398d8bf    06 Sep 2022     862MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.5-mt (x86_64)        8a5b0b58bcca    06 Sep 2022     829MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then execute the commands::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py upgrade

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
