Kiwi TCMS 11.3
##############

:headline: security, improvements, new features and translations
:date: 2022-04-27 20:35
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 11.3 which is the 100th tagged version
in our git repository!

**IMPORTANT:**
This is a small release which contains security related updates, several improvements,
bug fixes and new translations! Most importantly the kiwitcms-tenants plugin now supports
tenant groups and permissions!


You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


    Supported upgrade paths::
    
        5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
        5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
        6.0.1            -> 6.1
        6.1              -> 6.1.1
        6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::
    
        kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  58dcfa91e816    629MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 11.2
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update django from 4.0.3 to 4.0.4, see
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/releases/4.0.4/


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update bleach from 4.1.0 to 5.0.0
- Update django-tree-queries from 0.7.0 to 0.9.0
- Update jira from 3.1.1 to 3.2.0
- Update pygments from 2.11.2 to 2.12.0
- Update python-gitlab from 3.2.0 to 3.3.0
- Update tzdata from 2021.5 to 2022.1
- Update node_modules/marked from 4.0.12 to 4.0.14
- Update node_modules/prismjs from 1.27.0 to 1.28.0
- Allow overriding of Azure Boards API version. Closes
  `Issue #2717 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2717>`_
- If ``tenant_groups`` is enabled then ``refresh_permissions`` command will
  update default tenant groups too
- Document tenant-group permissions


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- New setting ``AZURE_BOARDS_API_VERSION``, defaults to 6.0. Can be overriden
  directly in settings or via environment variable with the same name


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Patch for repositories under GitLab subgroups. Fixes
  `Issue #2643 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/2643>`_ (@cmeissl)
- Don't crash if a comment user has been removed. Fixes
  `KIWI-TCMS-HZ <https://sentry.io/organizations/kiwitcms/issues/3086416250/>`_


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Split Users & Groups menu items under ADMIN entry in navigation
- [pre-commit.ci] updates
- pylint adjustments


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v11.3.1-mt
-------------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v11.3
- Update django-ses from 2.6.0 to 3.0.1
- Update kiwitcms-tenants from 1.11.0 to 2.1.1 for
  tenant groups support

    Private images::

        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.3.1-mt (aarch64  58a53d616105    27 Apr 2022     894MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         11.3.1-mt (x86_64)  3b5e7fbd234a    27 Apr 2022     847MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.3 (aarch64)      e9f34a86cd0b    27 Apr 2022     671MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            11.3 (x86_64)       58dcfa91e816    27 Apr 2022     627MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then execute the commands::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py upgrade

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
