Kiwi TCMS 12.4
##############

:headline: security updates, general improvements and new translations
:date: 2023-06-06 10:25
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 12.4!

**IMPORTANT:** this is a small release which contains security related updates,
few improvements and new translations!

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!


    Supported upgrade paths::

        5.3   (or older) -> 5.3.1
        5.3.1 (or newer) -> 6.0.1
        6.0.1            -> 6.1
        6.1              -> 6.1.1
        6.1.1            -> 6.2 (or newer)

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::

        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  5f88a1a37a39    599MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 12.3
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Improved checks when uploading potentially dangerous files. Fixes
  `CVE-2023-33977 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/security/advisories/GHSA-2fqm-m4r2-fh98>`_


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update django from 4.2.1 to 4.2.2
- Update jira from 3.5.0 to 3.5.1
- Add ``HEALTHCHECK`` command for Docker container
- Add searching by TestRun summary in Telemetry pages. Fixes
  `Issue #3190 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3190>`_
- Make it more clear when email notifications trigger. Closes
  `Issue #3212 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3212>`_
- Improve messaging for Issue Tracker Configuration health check.
  References `Issue #3141 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3141>`_,
  closes `Issue #3191 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3191>`_,
  closes `Issue #34 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/trackers-integration/issues/34>`_


Refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update node_modules/eslint from 8.40.0 to 8.42.0
- Update node_modules/eslint-plugin-n from 15.7.0 to 16.0.0
- Update node_modules/eslint-config-standard from 17.0.0 to 17.1.0
- Update node_modules/webpack from 5.83.1 to 5.85.0
- Update node_modules/webpack-cli from 5.1.1 to 5.1.3
- Update GitLab test data initialization b/c the database inside the container
  image has changed


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Russian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ru#>`_
- Updated `Slovenian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sl#>`_



Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v12.4-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v12.4
- Update kiwitcms-trackers-integration from 0.4.0 to 0.5.0

    Private images::

        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            12.4 (aarch64)          2d1f5f1ead8a    06 Jun 2023     607MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            12.4 (x86_64)           5f88a1a37a39    06 Jun 2023     598MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         12.4-mt (aarch64)       254794a5c858    06 Jun 2023     851MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         12.4-mt (x86_64)        5bc0ef78a3c4    06 Jun 2023     840MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ images are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then execute the commands::

    cd path/containing/docker-compose/
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose pull
    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it kiwi_web /Kiwi/manage.py upgrade

Refer to
`our documentation <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading>`_
for more details!

Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Donate via Open Collective <https://opencollective.com/kiwitcms/donate>`_ as low as 1 EUR;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
