Kiwi TCMS 13.5
##############

:headline: several improvements and updated translations
:date: 2024-08-07 09:30
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 13.5!

**IMPORTANT:**
this release includes security related updates, several improvements,
bug fixes and updated translations.

Recommended
`upgrade <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
path::

    13.4 -> 13.5

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::

        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  3df7b154ef68    688MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 13.4
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 4.2.13 to 5.0.8, addressing multiple potential security
  vulnerabilities, which do not seem to affect Kiwi TCMS directly however
  this is not 100% guaranteed


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update psycopg from 3.1.19 to 3.2.1
- Update python-gitlab from 4.6.0 to 4.9.0
- Add a ``Test Plan +`` button on *New Test Run* page. Related to
  `Issue #3680 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3680>`_
- Always show the ``Build +`` button on *New Test Run* page. Related to
  `Issue #3680 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3680>`_
- Add a ``Product +`` button on *New Test Run* page. Closes
  `Issue #3680 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3680>`_
- Add auto-complete for ``Parent ID`` field on *Edit TestPlan* page. Closes
  `Issue #3189 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3189>`_


API
~~~

- Add ``TestRun.remove()`` API method. Fixes
  `Issue #3691 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3691>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Do not call ``TestExecution.remove_link()`` on *TestRun* page with undefined
  argument (@Melzmann). Fixes `Issue #3728 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3728>`_
  where URLs attached to a test execution suddenly go missing after some time
- On *New Test Run* page when Product is updated trigger TestPlan on-change
  to fix a bug where the Build drop-down is not cleared and may be showing
  values which are invalid for the current selection
- Adjust angle bracket icon direction when viewing nested testplans. Fixes
  `Issue #3163 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3163>`_
- Strip newline characters from email subjects to avoid crashes.
  Fixes `Sentry KIWI-TCMS-P7 <https://kiwitcms.sentry.io/issues/5547586648/>`_


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update black from 24.4.2 to 24.8.0
- Update selenium from 4.21.0 to 4.23.1
- Update sphinx from 7.4.7 to 8.0.2
- Update node_modules/webpack from 5.92.0 to 5.93.0
- Update node_modules/eslint-plugin-promise from 6.2.0 to 6.6.0
- Modify test case to include newline characters in TestCase summary


Other
~~~~~

- EthicalAds is a GDPR-compliant ad network for devs which doesn't use
  cookies, and displays only dev-focused ads. Will be displayed on
  *free-beer* releases and the demo version hosted at
  *public.tenant.kiwitcms.org*


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Korean translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ko#>`_
- Updated `Portuguese, Brazilian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pt-BR#>`_



Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v13.5-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v13.5
- Update django-python3-ldap from 0.15.6 to 0.15.8
- Update kiwitcms-github-app from 2.0.0 to 2.0.1
- Update kiwitcms-tenants from 3.0.0 to 3.1.0
- Update kiwitcms-trackers-integration from 0.7.0 to 1.0.0
- Update sentry-sdk from 2.5.1 to 2.12.0
- Update social-auth-app-django from 5.4.1 to 5.4.2



Private container images
------------------------

    ::

        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            13.5 (aarch64)          0fe07ed87230    07 Aug 2024     701MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            13.5 (x86_64)           086fed49c1ca    07 Aug 2024     688MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         13.5-mt (aarch64)       3983e3289c81    07 Aug 2024     1.07GB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         13.5-mt (x86_64)        eedb94e79149    07 Aug 2024     1.04GB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then follow the
`Upgrading instructions <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
from our documentation.


Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
