Kiwi TCMS 13.7
##############

:headline: security related updates, improvements, bug fixes and new translations
:date: 2024-12-04 21:00
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 13.7!

**IMPORTANT:**

This release includes security related updates, several improvements,
API changes, a few bug fixes and new translations.

Recommended
`upgrade <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
path::

    13.6 -> 13.7

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::

        kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  89261439831b    677MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 13.6
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 5.0.9 to 5.0.10, addressing
  one security issue with severity “high” and
  one security issue with severity “moderate” which do not appear to
  affect Kiwi TCMS.


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update bleach from 6.1.0 to 6.2.0
- Update mysqlclient from 2.2.4 to 2.2.6
- Update pygithub from 2.4.0 to 2.5.0
- Update python-gitlab from 4.13.0 to 5.1.0
- Update uwsgi from 2.0.27 to 2.0.28
- Update node_modules/pdfmake from 0.2.14 to 0.2.15
- Speed-up TestCase filtering on the TestPlan view page
- Speed-up TestExecution filtering on TestRun view page


API
~~~

- Method ``Bug.details()`` will now return the additional fields
  ``id``, ``status`` and ``url``! References
  `Issue #3748 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3748>`_


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Remove internal ``IssueTrackerType.rpc_cache`` attribute. Fixes
  `Issue #3757 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3757>`_
- Update filtering logic for ``Automated=False`` on TestPlan view page. Fixes
  `Issue #3841 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3841>`_
- Refresh test execution counter when filtering on TestRun view page


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update action psf/black from 24.8.0 to 24.10.0
- Update action codecov/codecov-action from 4 to 5
- Update selenium from 4.25.0 to 4.27.1
- Update sphinx from 8.1.1 to 8.1.3
- Update node_modules/webpack from 5.95.0 to 5.97.0
- Update fedora from 40 to 41 in /tests/bugzilla
- Update redmine from 5 to 6 in /tests/redmine


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- New `Ukrainian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/uk#>`_
  (Oleksandr Nemchenko)



Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v13.7-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v13.7
- Add dependency on ``dict-hash`` package
- Update django-ses from 4.2.0 to 4.3.0
- Update dj-database-url from 2.2.0 to 2.3.0
- Update certbot from 2.11.0 to 3.0.1
- Update certbot-dns-* plugins from 2.11.0 to 3.0.1
- Update sentry-sdk from 2.16.0 to 2.19.0


Private container images
------------------------

    ::

        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            13.7 (aarch64)          33ab4247df54    04 Dec 2024     687MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            13.7 (x86_64)           ecf66eb23dda    04 Dec 2024     677MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         13.7-mt (x86_64)        62d4a283713b    04 Dec 2024     1.06GB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         13.7-mt (aarch64)       5e9b96dd3e6f    04 Dec 2024     1.08GB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then follow the
`Upgrading instructions <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
from our documentation.


Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
