Kiwi TCMS 14.0
##############

:headline: major version, security, backwards incompatible, improvements and new translations
:date: 2025-02-06 00:20
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 14.0!

**IMPORTANT:**

This is a major version release which includes security related updates,
backwards incompatible changes, several improvements and new translations.

Recommended
`upgrade <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
path::

    13.7 -> 14.0

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!

---

    Upstream container images (x86_64)::

        kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  a4c45db53541    681MB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 13.7
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update node_modules/cross-spawn from 7.0.3 to 7.0.6 to resolve a
  regular expression denial of service (ReDoS) vulnerability,
  `CVE-2024-21538 <https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-3xgq-45jj-v275>`_
- Update node_modules/semver from 6.3.0 to 6.3.1 to resolve a
  regular expression denial of service (ReDoS) vulnerability,
  `CVE-2022-25883 <https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-c2qf-rxjj-qqgw>`_
- Note that these are indirect dependencies of Kiwi TCMS, in particular
  pulled in via some of our developer tools, eslint and webpack,
  and the risk to existing Kiwi TCMS installations is minimal if at all!


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 5.0.10 to 5.1.6
- Update django-colorfield from 0.11.0 to 0.12.0
- Update django-modern-rpc from 1.0.3 to 1.1.0
- Update django-simple-captcha from 0.6.0 to 0.6.1
- Update django-simple-history from 3.7.0 to 3.8.0
- Update mysqlclient from 2.2.6 to 2.2.7
- Update psycopg[binary] from 3.2.3 to 3.2.4
- Update pygments from 2.18.0 to 2.19.1
- Update python-gitlab from 5.1.0 to 5.6.0
- Update tzdata from 2024.2 to 2025.1
- Update Node.js runtime from v16 to v22
- Update node_modules/pdfmake from 0.2.15 to 0.2.18
- Add Scarf.sh pixel - open source analytics


Database
~~~~~~~~

- **WARNING:** Postgres 12 is no longer supported. Minimum version is 13!
- Remove ``index_together`` from historical migrations


Settings
~~~~~~~~

- **WARNING:** the ``DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE`` and ``STATICFILES_STORAGE``
  settings have been removed!
- Explicitly define the ``STORAGES`` setting


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update black from 24.10.0 to 25.1.0
- Update isort from 5.13.2 to 6.0.0
- Update node_modules/webpack from 5.97.0 to 5.97.1
- Update node_modules/webpack-cli from 5.1.4 to 6.0.1
- Refactor ``request_contents_processor()`` to expose only data we use
  which sometimes lead to traceback recursion when rendering templates!
- Similate an API write performance test with Locust. References
  `Issue #721 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/721>`_
- Simulate a web performance test with Locust + Playwright. References
  `Issue #721 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/721>`_. Execution
  frequencies are informed by our Plausible.io stats


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `Hungarian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/hu#>`_



Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v14.0-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v14.0
- Remove dependency on ``dict-hash`` package
- Update certbot-* from 3.0.1 to 3.1.0
- Update django-ses from 4.3.0 to 4.4.0
- Update sentry-sdk from 2.19.0 to 2.20.0
- Update kiwitcms-tenants from 3.2.1 to 4.0.0
- Replace deprecated ``STATICFILES_STORAGE`` setting


Private container images
------------------------

    ::

        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            14.0 (aarch64)          9aaf5f3e5c7e    05 Feb 2025     695MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/version            14.0 (x86_64)           0152d6ac4cec    05 Feb 2025     681MB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         14.0-mt (aarch64)       f28044190b68    05 Feb 2025     1.08GB
        quay.io/kiwitcms/enterprise         14.0-mt (x86_64)        317f8f14a984    05 Feb 2025     1.06GB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then follow the
`Upgrading instructions <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
from our documentation.


Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
