Kiwi TCMS 14.1
##############

:headline: security updates, improvements, API changes and new translations
:date: 2025-03-11 09:05
:comments: true
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 14.1!

**IMPORTANT:**

This is a minor version release which includes security related updates,
several improvements, API changes and new translations.

Recommended
`upgrade <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
path::

    14.0 -> 14.1

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!

---

    Public container image (x86_64)::

        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  203d476fbcdc    674MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 14.0
----------------------------

Security
~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 5.1.6 to 5.1.7 addressing a medium severity
  denial-of-service vulnerability,
  `CVE-2025-26699 <https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-26699>`_,
  which does not appear to affect Kiwi TCMS


Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update django-simple-captcha from 0.6.1 to 0.6.2
- Update psycopg from 3.2.4 to 3.2.5
- Update pygithub from 2.5.0 to 2.6.1
- Enable search functionality on Tag Admin page (Jurijs Ješkins). Fixes
  `Issue #3739 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3739>`_
- After cloning a TestCase load its Edit page. (Martin Bodurov)
- Add ``Search Test Executions`` item under ``SEARCH`` menu in navigation bar
- Display ``Default tester`` field on Search Test Cases page
- Display ``Default tester`` fields on Execution Dashboard page. Closes
  `Issue #3766 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3766>`_
- On TestRun view page display TestExecution history diff only when user
  accessing the page has the ``testruns.view_historicaltestexecution``
  permission. Otherwise it will not be shown
- Display ``Last Bug ID - Status`` widget for each TestExecution row on
  TestRun view page. Closes
  `Issue #3748 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3748>`_
- Allow user to exclude ``Product`` condition on Search Test Cases page
- Update references to Kiwi TCMS container images across our code base,
  documentation and website as we may change hosting providers soon
- Update performance results documentation
- Document results for parallel user session performance. Closes
  `Issue #721 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/721>`_


API
~~~

- Method ``TestExecution.history()`` is now controlled by the more granular
  ``testruns.view_historicaltestexecution`` permission instead of the generic
  ``testruns.view_testexecution``


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update isort from 6.0.0 to 6.0.1
- Update sphinx from 8.1.3 to 8.2.3
- Update node_modules/webpack from 5.97.1 to 5.98.0
- Remove eslint-plugin-promise as a direct dependency
- Remove duplicate field ``history_change_reason`` from ORM query
- Refactor code which displays the red bug icon in TestRun view page


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Albanian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/sq#>`_
- Updated `Korean translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ko#>`_
- Updated `Portuguese, Brazilian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pt-BR#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v14.1-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v14.1
- Update certbot-* from 3.1.0 to 3.2.0
- Update sentry-sdk from 2.20.0 to 2.22.0
- Update social-auth-app-django from 5.4.2 to 5.4.3
- Add new setting ``MERMAID_RENDERER_URL``


Private container images
------------------------

    ::

        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            14.1 (aarch64)          21e42abe02fc    10 Mar 2025     688MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            14.1 (x86_64)           f94f7ef3d6cc    10 Mar 2025     674MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         14.1-mt (aarch64)       181f2ffe0a75    10 Mar 2025     1.08GB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         14.1-mt (x86_64)        12c79af66fc6    10 Mar 2025     1.06GB

**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


How to upgrade
---------------

`Backup <{filename}2018-07-30-docker-backup.markdown>`_ first!
Then follow the
`Upgrading instructions <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
from our documentation.


Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Give 👍 on GitLab <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/334558>`_;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
