Kiwi TCMS 15.0
##############

:headline: major version, improvements, bug fixes and new translations
:date: 2025-09-23 15:25
:comments: false
:tags: releases


We're happy to announce Kiwi TCMS version 15.0!

**IMPORTANT:**

This is a major version release which includes important changes to the database,
several improvements, bug fixes, couple of updated plugins and new translations.


Recommended
`upgrade <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
path::

    14.3 -> 15.0

You can explore everything at
`https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org <https://public.tenant.kiwitcms.org/>`_!

---

    Public container image (x86_64)::

        pub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/kiwi   latest  1b5584d7b2c1    695MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged and multi-arch
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


Changes since Kiwi TCMS 14.3
----------------------------

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update Django from 5.1.11 to 5.2.6
- Update django-guardian from 3.0.3 to 3.2.0
- Update django-tree-queries from 0.20.0 to 0.21.2
- Update markdown from 3.8.2 to 3.9
- Update psycopg[binary] from 3.2.9 to 3.2.10
- Update pygithub from 2.6.1 to 2.8.1
- Update python-gitlab from 6.1.0 to 6.3.0
- Support access key authentication for Redmine issue tracker integration
  (Makson Lee)
- Rename navbar item PLUGINS -> MORE
- Send email notifications when a TestCase is created. Fixes
  `Issue #4058 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/4058>`_
- Add Cancel button for "New TestCase" & "Edit TestCase" pages. Fixes
  `Issue #4073 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/4073>`_
- Display number of records found on Search pages. Fixes
  `Issue #3324 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/3324>`_
- Start keeping track of history for ``Product``, ``Version`` and ``Build``
  records

Database
~~~~~~~~

- **WARNING:** Postgres 13 is no longer supported. Minimum version is 14!
- New migration ``management.0011_history_for_product_version_build``
- **IMPORTANT:** For existing Kiwi TCMS installations history will be generated
  as soon as these objects are changed

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Correct a typo. Fixes
  `Issue #4072 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/4072>`_
- Avoid broader matches when searching for harmful HTML attributes in
  uploaded files. Fixes
  `Issue #4074 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/4074>`_
- Send a POST request when clicking Logout menu while on Admin page. Fixes
  `Issue #4005 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/4005>`_


Refactoring and testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update actions/checkout from 4 to 5
- Update actions/setup-node from 4 to 5
- Update actions/setup-python from 5 to 6
- Update github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit-hooks from v5.0.0 to v6.0.0
- Update psf/black from 25.1.0 to 25.9.0
- Update black from 25.1.0 to 25.9.0
- Update node_modules/webpack from 5.99.9 to 5.101.3
- Adjust API tests for Django 5.2
- Add test for
  `Issue #4074 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/4074>`_
- Add logout tests via browser for
  `Issue #4005 <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/issues/4005>`_


Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated `Chinese Simplified translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/zh-CN#>`_
- Updated `Japanese translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ja#>`_
- Updated `Polish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pl#>`_
- Updated `Portuguese, Brazilian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/pt-BR#>`_
- Updated `Russian translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/ru#>`_
- Updated `Spanish translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/es-ES#>`_
- Updated `Spanish, Argentina translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/es-AR#>`_
- Updated `Spanish, Uruguay translation <https://crowdin.com/project/kiwitcms/es-UY#>`_


Kiwi TCMS Enterprise v15.0-mt
-----------------------------

- Based on Kiwi TCMS v15.0
- Update certbot from 4.1.1 to 4.2.0 in the certbot group
- Update django-python3-ldap from 0.15.8 to 0.16.1
- Update kiwitcms-tenants from 4.1.0 to 4.2.0
- Update sentry-sdk from 2.32.0 to 2.38.0
- Remove certbot-dns-* plugins as dependencies
- Redesign bin/lets-encrypt script for wild-card certificates


Private container images
------------------------

    ::

        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            15.0 (aarch64)          d3842a187b07    23 Sep 2025     706MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/version            15.0 (x86_64)           3e3aa12837a2    23 Sep 2025     695MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         15.0-mt (aarch64)       9856d098eea7    23 Sep 2025     975MB
        hub.kiwitcms.eu/kiwitcms/enterprise         15.0-mt (x86_64)        a30d6b94b271    23 Sep 2025     954MB


**IMPORTANT:** version tagged, multi-arch and Enterprise
`container images <{filename}pages/containers.markdown>`_ are available only to
`subscribers </#subscriptions>`_!


tcms-api v15.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Include host URL in Referer header
- Updates for newer pylint
- Updates for newer Sphynx
- Update GitHub actions


kiwitcms-junit.xml-plugin v15.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Update junitparser from 3.1.0 to 3.2.0
- Drop official support for Python 3.8


How to upgrade
---------------

Follow the
`Upgrading instructions <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing_docker.html#upgrading-instructions>`_
from our documentation.


Happy testing!

---

If you like what we're doing and how Kiwi TCMS supports various communities
please help us grow!

- `Give ⭐ on GitHub <https://github.com/kiwitcms/Kiwi/stargazers>`_;
- `Join our newsletter <https://kiwitcms.us17.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=9b57a21155a3b7c655ae8f922&id=c970a37581>`_
  and follow all project news;
- `Become a contributor <https://kiwitcms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contribution.html>`_
  and an awesome open source hacker;
- `Become a subscriber </#subscriptions>`_ and help us sustain development
